Topala



Released the summer before my junior year, the Borealis EP was my first foray into electronic music production outside of trap. I was experimenting with my arrangements, adding B sections and variations as well as an intro and outro. It was during the making of this EP that I discovered my preferred song structure of Intro - A - B - A. I was also starting to use funkier chords and swing-ier rhythms and beginning to find my voice as an artist. Topala marks the first time I used Vital to sound design elements of the track, as well as the first time I automated synth macros to add flavor to synth chords, which has become a staple production technique in my arsenal.



Battlecry



Automations, automations everywhere! Making Battlecry helped me further my expertise in automations. The tone of the bass, release of the synth chords, and volume of various elements are all heavily automated throughout the track. I have always been obsessed with clean transitions, and it is clearly evident here - the layered risers, drum fills, and arrangement combine to give this piece a sense of constant movement and energy. The laugh before the first drop might sound familiar - together with the laughs in the outro of Topala, and the pre-drop vocal in Vem, they are taken from League of Legends characters.



Vem



The first draft of Vem was made around the time Borealis released during a family vacation to Philadelphia. Sitting on my bed, I opened up Vital, put a band pass on some white noise, and cranked up the resonance. I was so inspired by the melodic yet gritty sound that I immediately came up with the main drop. The swingy, halftime beat as well as the vocal chops in the B section are heavily inspired by Mr. Bill (Australian EDM producer), my favorite artist at the time.

I ended up returning to Vem around half a year later to mix and master it, making it the first track I mastered for release. My audio engineering skills grew exponentially during that time, and Vem remains one of the cleanest mixes I’ve ever achieved.



BluesStep



Blues + Dubstep: What could go wrong? 

Just after Vem was released, my mom got me a Splice subscription for my birthday, (thanks, mom!), and my whole world opened up. I’ve always had fully formed ideas in my head, but finding the exact samples to match what I heard was tedious and often impossible, and I didn’t have enough time to dedicate to sound design nor money to dedicate to plugins/sample libraries. I swear this is not sponsored.

BluesStep is built almost entirely from splice samples. I came up with the entire B section from random motown/soul vocals I found. The main exceptions are the main bass and lead. I came up with the lead melodies by riffing out solos on my MIDI keyboard until I got a couple bars of usable material, then drawing in the MIDI, rinse, and repeat. 



Lost In Space



From making the first draft of the beat in my AP US History class in junior year, to crafting the final polishes and releasing the song upon moving to college, making Lost In Space took two years. This was the first song I ever recorded my own vocals on, and I was paranoid. I wrote and rewrote the lyrics and obsessively tweaked the arrangement for months before even beginning to record. I attempted to mix my vocals six times, and sometimes each mix sounded worse than the last. But in the end, I’m extremely proud of how it turned out.

I put a ton of work into this track, and I think it shows. Listen to Topala again after this, and you’ll hear at least some resemblance of musical sophistication, but comparing the two tracks is like night and day. I’ve come far on my music production journey, and I’m still learning with every track. I hope this song and this entire portfolio inspire you to do what you’ve always wanted to do. As Yoda said, “Do or do not. There is no try.”

If you’ve made it here, thank you for stopping by. It means a lot to me that my music means something to you. Or maybe you just happened to stumble across this and you’ve never heard my music before. No matter! Leave this studio as you found it and make sure you turn off the lights before leaving. Goodbye!
